polish news (#3209)
tidyverse/ggplot2: NEWS.md

  `stat_summary_hex()`, `geom_quantile()`, `stat_quantile()`, and `map_data()` 
  (@clauswilke, #3126).

* `geom_hline()`, `geom_vline()`, and `geom_abline()` now throw a warning if the 
  user supplies both an `xintercept`, `yintercept`, or `slope` value and a 
  mapping (@RichardJActon, #2950).

* `geom_rug()` now works with `coord_flip()` (@has2k1, #2987).

* Default labels are now generated more consistently; e.g., symbols no longer
  get backticks, and long expressions are abbreviated with `...`
  (@yutannihilation, #2981).

* Layers now have a new member function `setup_layer()` which is called at the
  very beginning of the plot building process and which has access to the 
  original input data and the plot object being built. This function allows the 
  creation of custom layers that autogenerate aesthetic mappings based on the 
  input data or that filter the input data in some form. This is mainly of 
  interest to extension developers (@clauswilke, #2872).

* All-`Inf` layers are now ignored for picking the scale (@yutannihilation, 
  #3184).
  
* Diverging brewer color scale now has the correct mid-point color 
  (@dariyasydykova, #3072).
  

> * `scale_color_continuous()` now points at `scale_colour_continuos()` so that it 

Reviewer: Hi...

> `scale_color_continuous()` now points at `scale_colour_continuos()`

There is a missing `u` in the second `continuos()`.

 (just passing by, :walking_man: :walking_man: :walking_man:,  thanks :bowing_man: for everything you do)

Reviewer 2: That's the American spelling 🤣

# ggplot2 3.1.0.9000

> This is a minor release with a main emphasis on internal changes to make ggplot2 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is a minor release with an emphasis on internal changes to make ggplot2 
```

> faster and more consistent. The few semi-breaking changes there are will only 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
faster and more consistent. The few interface changes will only 
```

> affect the aesthetics of the plot (but not break code) or, potentially, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
affect the aesthetics of the plot in minor ways, and will only potentially break code of
```

extension developers if they have relied on internals that have been changed. 

> This release also sees the addition of Hiroaki Yutani (@yutannihilation) to the 

Reviewer 3: Thanks for this sentence, but I think we have not described the change of the core developer team in NEWS so far. Am I really a news to users...?

Author: We may not have been doing it before, but I think it belongs in a NEWS file...

Reviewer 3: I see.

Reviewer 2: Agreed!

core developer team.

## New features

* This release includes a range of internal changes that speeds up plot 
  generation. None of the changes are user facing and will not break any code,
  but in general ggplot2 should feel much faster. The changes includes, but are
  not limited to:
  
  - Caching ascent and descent dimensions of text to avoid recalculating it for
    every title.
  
  - Using a faster data.frame constructor as well as faster indexing into 
    data.frames
    

>   - Remove all dependencies on plyr and implement faster replacement functions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Removing the plyr dependency, replacing plyr functions with faster equivalents.
```

* `geom_polygon()` can now draw polygons with holes using the new `subgroup` 
  aesthetic. This functionality requires R 3.6.0 (@thomasp85, #3128)

* Aesthetic mappings now accept functions that return `NULL` (@yutannihilation,
  #2997).

* `stat_function()` now accepts rlang/purrr style anonymous functions for the 
  `fun` parameter (@dkahle, #3159).

* `geom_rug()` gains an "outside" option to allow for moving the rug tassels to 
  outside the plot area (@njtierney, #3085) and a `length` option to allow for 
  changing the length of the rug lines (@daniel-wells, #3109). 

## Minor improvements and bug fixes

* `coord_map()` now can have axes on the top and right (@karawoo, #3042).

* `coord_sf()`, `coord_map()`, and `coord_polar()` now squash `-Inf` and `Inf`
  into the min and max of the plot (@yutannihilation, #2972).

* `coord_sf()` graticule lines are now drawn in the same thickness as panel grid 
  lines in `coord_cartesian()`, and seting panel grid lines to `element_blank()` 
  now also works in `coord_sf()` 
  (@clauswilke, #2991, #2525).

> * Re-generate economics data. This leads to some changes in the values of all

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `economics` data has been regenerated. This leads to some changes in the values of all
```

  columns (especially in `psavert`), but more importantly, strips the grouping
  attributes from `economics_long`.

> * Closed arrows in `element_line()` are now filled (@yutannihilation, #2924).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `element_line()` now fills closed arrows (@yutannihilation, #2924).
```

* Facet strips on the left side of plots now have clipping turned on, preventing
  text from running out of the strip and borders from looking thicker than for
  other strips (@karawoo, #2772 and #3061).

> * `GeomRibbon` and `GeomArea` now sort the data along the x-axis in the 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `geom_area()` and `geom_ribbon()` now sort the data along the x-axis in the 
```

Reviewer 2: Needs to be moved down to live with other geom bullets

  `setup_data()` method rather than as part of `draw_group()` (@thomasp85, 
  #3023)

* ggplot2 now works in Turkish locale (@yutannihilation, #3011).

* ggplot2 no longer attaches any external packages when using functions that 
  depend on packages that are suggested but not imported by ggplot2. The 
  affected functions include `geom_hex()`, `stat_binhex()`, 
  `stat_summary_hex()`, `geom_quantile()`, `stat_quantile()`, and `map_data()` 
  (@clauswilke, #3126).

* `geom_hline()`, `geom_vline()`, and `geom_abline()` now throw a warning if the 
  user supplies both an `xintercept`, `yintercept`, or `slope` value and a 
  mapping (@RichardJActon, #2950).

* `geom_rug()` now works with `coord_flip()` (@has2k1, #2987).

* Default labels are now generated more consistently; e.g., symbols no longer
  get backticks, and long expressions are abbreviated with `...`
  (@yutannihilation, #2981).

> * Layers now have a new member function `setup_layer()` which is called at the

Reviewer 2: Maybe move this bullet to new "Extensions" header?

Author: Good idea... there are a few others that would fit in there

  very beginning of the plot building process and which has access to the 
  original input data and the plot object being built. This function allows the 
  creation of custom layers that autogenerate aesthetic mappings based on the 
  input data or that filter the input data in some form. One example is the new 
  `LayerSf` class which locates the geometry column in sf objects and sets up an 

>   aesthetic mapping for it (@clauswilke, #2872).

Reviewer 4: Should we delete or modify this news item? As it currently stands, none of this code is user facing, and it cannot be used outside of ggplot2 proper. The main benefit at this time is a cleaner internal implementation of sf layers. @hadley @yutannihilation

Reviewer 3: I think `setup_layer()` is the change that should be mentioned in NEWS, so I'm against deleting this. How about using the first sentence + "for internal use only"?

(Though I'm not sure if we can recommend this to ordinary users, but `setup_layer()` might be still useful by overwriting it from outside as you showed in this example: https://github.com/tidyverse/ggplot2/pull/2875#issuecomment-417835205)

* All-`Inf` layers are now ignored for picking the scale (@yutannihilation, 
  #3184).
  

> * Diverging brewer color scale now has the correct mid-point color 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Diverging Brewer colour palette now use the correct mid-point colour 
```

  (@dariyasydykova, #3072).
  

> * `scale_color_continuous()` now points at `scale_colour_continuous()` so that 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `scale_color_continuous()` now points to `scale_colour_continuous()` so that 
```

# ggplot2 3.1.0.9000

This is a minor release with a main emphasis on internal changes to make ggplot2 
faster and more consistent. The few breaking changes there are will only affect
the aesthetics of the plot (but not break code) or, potentially, extension 
developers if they have relied on internals that have been changed.

> ## Breaking Changes

Reviewer 2: House style is sentence case

> * Default labels are now generated more consistently; e.g., symbols no longer

Reviewer 2: Why is this a breaking change?

Author: It changes the visual of some plots... I agree it is a slim one

  get backticks, and long expressions are abbreviated with `...`
  (@yutannihilation, #2981).

> * `GeomRibbon` and `GeomArea` now sort the data along the x-axis in the 

Reviewer 2: Why is this a breaking change? Given that no revdeps broke, I don't actually understand why we even have this section.

Author: It could potentially break someones code if they had subclassed one of these (but not put it in a package)... I'm fine with removing the whole section, though

Reviewer 4: Looking at it from the perspective of a ggplot2 user with code generating hundreds of carefully crafted figures, I'd rather know if there are code changes that are likely to cause perceptible differences to my figures. Not sure if those changes are breaking, in the strict definition of the term, but they do deserve to be called out in a separate section I think.

Author: I've currently removed the section completely... I don't care much either way, so the one with the strongest feelings about it gets to decide

Reviewer 2: I think the problem is getting the granularity right - if you describe things that only subtly affect a few plots in minor ways, they will swamp out the actually important stuff.

But I'd be ok renaming this section to "Visual changes" or similar — it's just that "breaking changes" has a specific meaning in our process.

Reviewer 4: I read through the entire news file as is top to bottom and I think it's fine as it currently stands, without an explicit "breaking changes" section.

>   `setup_data()` method rather than as part of `draw_group()` (@thomasp85, 

Reviewer 2: I think our convention is to not include authors of core developers, but I don't feel super strongly about it.

Reviewer 4: I believe we had a discussion about this at the last release and decided to continue with the practice of listing everybody. I can probably dig out the thread if I look a little harder.

Reviewer 4: Ah, it's right here: #2921

  #3023)

> * `x0` and `y0` is now recognized positional aesthetics so they will get scaled 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `x0` and `y0` are now recognized positional aesthetics so they will get scaled 
```

  if used in extension geoms and stats (@thomasp85, #3168)

* Re-generate economics data. This leads to some changes in the values of all
  columns (especially in `psavert`), but more importantly, strips the grouping
  attributes from `economics_long`.

* `coord_sf()`, `coord_map()`, and `coord_polar()` now squash `-Inf` and `Inf`
  into the min and max of the plot (@yutannihilation, #2972).

## New Features

> * Add Hiroaki Yutani (@yutannihilation) to the core developer group.

Reviewer 2: I think you should call this out in the first paragraph.

* This release includes a range of internal changes that speeds up plot 
  generation. None of the changes are user facing and will not break any code,
  but in general ggplot2 should feel much faster. The changes includes, but are
  not limited to:
  
  - Caching ascent and descent dimensions of text to avoid recalculating it for
    every title.
  
  - Using a faster data.frame constructor as well as faster indexing into 
    data.frames
    
  - Remove all dependencies on plyr and implement faster replacement functions.

* `geom_polygon()` can now draw polygons with holes using the new `subgroup` 

>   aesthetic. This functionality requires R 3.6 (@thomasp85, #3128)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  aesthetic. This functionality requires R 3.6.0 (@thomasp85, #3128)
```

* Aesthetic mappings now accept functions that return `NULL` (@yutannihilation,
  #2997).

> * `stat_function()` now accepts rlang/purrr style anonymous functions for the 

Reviewer 2: Should be alphabetised by function name

Author: I don't understand that?

Reviewer 2: The bullets should be alphabetised by the name of the function they describe.

Author: ah

  `fun` parameter (@dkahle, #3159).

> * `geom_rug()` gains an "outside" option to allow for moving the rug tassels to 

Reviewer 2: You can group these two features together into one bullet

  outside the plot area. (@njtierney, #3085)

* `geom_rug()` gains a `length` option to allow for changing the length of the 
  rug lines. (@daniel-wells, #3109)

> ## Minor Improvements and Fixes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Minor improvements and bug fixes
```
